Welcome back to the data science hangout everybody. We are so happy you're here. I am Libby. I'm a
community manager here at Posit helping to foster our vibrant hangout community and I'm based in
San Antonio, Texas. Posit, if you don't know, builds enterprise solutions and open source tools
for people who do data science with R and Python. And in case you didn't know, we are the company
formerly known as rstudio. So if you've used rstudio, you've used Posit. I am joined today
by the creator of the hangout and my co-host Rachel. Rachel, do you want to introduce yourself?
Sure. I'm Rachel. I lead customer marketing at Posit and I'm based in the Boston area. So if
you're in Boston and ever want to catch up or grab coffee, let me know. The Posit office is right in
the seaport. So happy to have you all joining us here today. The hangout is our open space to hear
what's going on in the world of data across all different industries, get to chat about data
science leadership, and connect with other people here who are facing similar things as you. And we
get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So if you are watching this as a
recording on YouTube and you want to join us live in the future, we would love to have you here.
And there will be details below to add it to your own calendar.
Oh, Libby, you're muted. Oh, good call. Trying to mute the kitten noises that have potential in my
background, everybody. Wanted to say a big thank you to everybody who has made this the friendly
and the welcoming space that it is today. We are all really dedicated to keeping it that way. So
if you have feedback about your experience here today, good or bad, we would really like to hear
from you. There's going to be a survey that pops up in your browser as soon as you leave the Zoom
call. Please let us know how you feel there. But you could also reach out to us on LinkedIn,
comment on one of our LinkedIn posts. And at the hangout, we really love hearing from you
live here on the call too. This is the point of the call. This is a community discussion.
It doesn't happen without everybody asking questions. It doesn't matter your years of
experience, your title, your industry, what languages you work in or don't work in.
We want to hear from you. We also really encourage you to connect with each other. This is a community
spot. So introduce yourself. Where are you? What do you do? What do you do for fun? Feel free to
share your LinkedIn, a link to your GitHub repo, link to your personal website. The chat is yours
to share resources. And so as Libby mentioned, we'd love to hear from you today. So the ways that
you can jump in is you could raise your hand on Zoom. We can call on you to ask a question.
You can put questions in the Zoom chat and just put a little asterisk next to it if it's something
you want us to read. Maybe you're in a coffee shop or something. And then third, we do have a Slido
link where you could ask questions anonymously. And I'm sure Isabella or Curtis will share that
in the chat right now. But I'm also going to do a quick shout out that the registration for PositConf
2025 is now open. I don't want to forget to say that. We'll be in Atlanta this year.
But with all that, we are so excited to be joined by our co-host today, Joe Chang, CTO at Posit.
And we're also lucky to be joined by a few of the 2024 Shiny contest winners today. And we'd
love to spotlight them as well during our conversation as we will inevitably touch on
Shiny with Joe today. And I hear we also have a few other Shiny team members here too. So huge
Shiny day at the Hangout. Joe, I'd love to kick it off with having you introduce yourself first
and share a little bit about your role here at Posit, but also something you like to do for fun
outside of work. All right. I am the CTO of Posit. I was the first employee back in 2009.
Almost my entire time at Posit has been focused on web stuff, especially Shiny.
And in the last, I don't know, maybe year, I've been focused on AI and took all my energy not
to roll my eyes when I said that. But it is true. I have been exploring at first the intersection
of Shiny and AI, and then it kind of turned into like AI across Posit. What does this
crazy technology mean for us? Outside of work, my hobby aspirationally is cycling.
It has now been, I'm going to admit to all of you, it's been like a month and a half since my last
ride. So I don't know how much longer I can keep saying that's my hobby. But it is the thing that
I love to do the most. And it's just been a very busy slash sick few weeks for me here.
That definitely still counts as a hobby.
So before we jump in, and I'm sure there'll be a lot of AI questions as well, but we mentioned
the Shiny contest already. And I think it'd be great to pull in Curtis, who has run this
contest for a few years now. Curtis, would you want to jump in and share a little bit about what
the Shiny contest is? Yeah, absolutely. And then I'm Curtis. I work at Posit on the marketing team
and community team. And I'm the one who's always on the walking desk. So I guess my hobby is like
long distance hiking. On the point of the Shiny contest, I should give credit where it's due.
So Joe and Mini, Chet and I, Rundell, I think many of you also know, did the first Shiny contest
ages ago. And I've kind of picked up the mantle, and then taken it to like tables. And we have a
Closery Prize, which is, you know, an extension for Cordo that does scrolling telling. They have
their own contest up and running now. That's completely, pretty much separate from Posit.
So the community event, when we think about, I'll just kind of talk about my understanding of the
philosophy. So when we think about the kind of community events, we'd like to support and
organize ourselves here. One point that I like to, I've seen is that, you know, most of Posit
are engineers who are, you know, making software, open source software. And so open source software
benefits a lot for as people contribute to the code base. And, you know, you can contribute
directly by contributing code, you could create supporting packages, you could do bug reports,
feature requests, there's all sorts of ways you could contribute. But there's interestingly is
there's also a user community and a super user community. They're folks who might not be actually
contributing to the GitHub repo and directly to code or supporting package, but they have a ton
that they could contribute. And there's a ton of ways that they could support the community.
And many of them, you know, they make YouTube videos, they make blogs, they contribute in
various ways. But we were just kind of thinking, what's a good way that we could kind of plant a
flag to kind of call for people to contribute and to kind of show what they do? So, you know,
for example, how do you create Shiny apps? What Shiny apps are you creating? How do you organize
your code? How do you implement all these ideas and features into an actual, you know, fully running
like Shiny app? And we were kind of thinking, is there a way you could do it that it's fully
reproducible and people could dive into the code and kind of learn how you approach things?
And so that's kind of the philosophy of...
Thanks about that. Yeah. So that's kind of what was, you know, we're kind of thinking,
how can we kind of call on the community to share in a very polite way? So that's kind of what the
Shiny contest and a lot of our other contests are doing, where we have a submission deadline that
is essentially a forcing function to encourage people to submit and actually get their work done
and share by a certain date. We have like a, you know, a group of reviewers to kind of dive into
and actually, you know, produce a nice little rank order list for us. And so, yeah, in 2024,
right, we had over 100 submissions. They were both R and Python. The interesting statistic,
there's over 20 countries. And that's just looking at the addresses that people asked for their
stickers to be sent to. And I just find it so cool that, you know, it's just kind of Joe sort
of saying, hey, if you guys would like to share, we'll recognize the most excellent work, but we'll
also recognize amazing work. You know, we have a long list of honorable mentions. Everything's done
in a reproducible and shareable way so that people could kind of dive in and learn from each other.
And I find it amazing that, like, the core incentive that's built into this, like, you know,
why are people contributing? It does feel like altruism, right? Like, basically you're being
recognized, you know, and then you get some stickers. And then I think a few people get,
you know, positive connect cloud and shiny upstudio. So, we are just blown away by all the
sharing that people do and just really appreciate it. I wanted to call out, there's a few winners
that I think are joining with us today. So, Maxim had curb cut. He was the grand prize winner for
this year with David. Evan Brand, I think I see. Umar and Augustine and Angel were both runners up.
I think I also see a ton of other names that I recognize as well. So, sorry if I'm not calling
you out. But then Eric Nance and Marcin Dubel, their previous winners as well who are here.
I think we're going to try to pull them in a bit later. So, thank you so much.
Awesome. Yeah, we might direct some questions to y'all.
Congratulations, everybody. Joe, I have a question for you. We're talking about the
shiny contest. You have seen a lot of shiny over the years. So, what was different about
this year's crop of winners? Yeah, absolutely. First, I want to acknowledge this contest doesn't
happen without Curtis, for sure. He's the driving force behind making it all go. And then this year's
contest would not have happened without Garrick Adenbue, who is on our call, who not only helped
judge but kind of built all the infrastructure for judging this year. So, big lip from him.
This year, 2024, I think every year, I think the submissions are really awe-inspiring.
And I'm surprised every year. I don't know why I'm surprised every year. But every year,
I'm like, oh my gosh, like what people are able to come up with is amazing. And I think what
struck me about this year was that the level of sort of design polish and technical expertise and
impressiveness is as high as ever. But it felt like these applications, especially among the
winners, felt real. Like, it didn't feel like somebody just put together a demo or somebody
just put together something for the sake of, you know, trying out a new technique or a new function
or to, you know, show off some virtuosity and design or something like that. But they really
felt like they were built for a purpose and were used by someone. So, our grand prize winner,
Curb Cut, was designed to help kind of urban analysis of urban areas and different ways that,
you know, emissions and sustainability and things like that. And clearly was built
with a passion for helping these municipalities figure out, you know, different aspects of how
they can make their cities more sustainable. Or like, on the other end of the spectrum,
there was a Pomodoro timer that was so polished and so kind of dialed in that clearly somebody
had thought about all the kind of use cases. And yeah, just like every one of them, it felt like
it either really engaged in someone's hobby in a way that you could feel like, oh, this person
like needed to use this. So, that's really interesting because we don't necessarily,
we don't grade based on that. We didn't ask for that. And yet, it was really cool to see that
these are, you know, applications that are really probably having an impact for the people who
built them. Garrick, can I throw it over to you? Like, did you have any impressions about this year's?
Yeah, Garrick, we'd love to have you introduce yourself, too. Thank you so much for joining us.
Yeah, sure. So, hi, everyone. My name is Garrick Adenbuie. I have been on the Shiny team now for
two and a half years. No, two years is almost exactly two years at this point. And it's been
great. And I don't know. So, I live in, just outside of Atlanta, Georgia. And anyway, but yeah,
I had a lot of fun looking at these apps this year. I've been a judge for a couple years now
for everything. And I think, like, especially being on the Shiny team and being kind of in
the trenches of GitHub issues and, you know, seeing little snippets of apps and of Shiny code
that people are writing and often helping them kind of try to debug or figuring out what we did
wrong. In those cases, it's just very refreshing to see these, you know, well done, full apps that
do something useful that help people in their daily lives or help them realize, you know,
a creative idea that they had. And it's just, it's very rewarding, you know, to have that
contact and to be able to, you know, to be an engineer on the Shiny team and to see how it's
being used in all these creative ways. Absolutely. I put a question into the chat for some of the
Shiny contest winners or anybody who's participated, but I would love to hear what advice you might
give to somebody who's considering entering the contest in the future. So I'm not going to put
anybody on the spot here, but if you wanted to answer that in the thread in the chat,
we'd love to see that too. We had one anonymous question come in already, Joe, and I think it's
good to cover up front. What does a CTO do and what does CTO stand for? Nobody knows, honestly,
what I mean. So, no, I'm sorry. It really can mean a lot of things, and I think it's different
than a lot of other C-suite titles. And I used to make a point to always introduce myself as,
hi, I'm CTO. That is an honorary title. My job is really more of like a lead developer.
But as it has been explained to me, traditionally, CTO can mean one of a number of things.
First is you start a company. There's two of you. There's a technical person and a non-technical
person. The technical person is the CTO. So that's one possibility. And as the company grows, then,
you know, whatever. That's not me. This company was started by J.J. Allaire, the most technical
person I know. So I'm not that kind of CTO. Another kind of CTO is where you have kind of
a engineering department and a VP of engineering who's kind of over that. And that VP of engineering
manages and makes sure that everything, all the trains run on time and things like that.
And then the CTO is kind of like department of architecture. And they're either sitting
there pontificating about the future or making architecture decisions that kind of then get
projected onto the engineering department. And I don't believe in that kind of CTO.
No offense to anyone. But and then the third kind is basically your engineering department
is in trouble and you need someone to come in and make a lot of unpopular changes.
So you appoint the CTO. So I'm none of those things. But I do have to admit, especially over
the last, I don't know, year and a half, you know, like this, this AI stuff kind of was not a natural
technology for us to ingest as a company. And I think like a year ago, we were all like, boo, AI,
you know, we're all kind of very skeptical, except for like three people in the company
who are really excited about it. And I kind of felt like compelled, like, I at least have to
spend some time checking this out and then realize like, oh, crap, like, no, we are missing something
very, very important. And it's not something that like we in the boardroom need to understand. It's
like this whole company, we need to build understanding from top to bottom about this
technology. It's that important for us. So my job went from, I'm helping the Shiny team execute on,
you know, the packages that we build and giving talks and things like that to like, how do I take
this whole company of really smart, opinionated people and help us go from a world where like,
boo, AI sucks to, yeah, there's some like really heavy reservations we have about it. And yet,
we have to look at the opportunities here and, you know, upskill ourselves and turn that into,
you know, a set of plans, a set of prototypes, you know, a set of strategies. And so there have
been like a lot of points over the last year where I'm like, this feels like CTO work more than it
feels like being a lead developer. So sorry, that was a long answer.
Oh, that's great. I see Marcos has a follow-up question here in the chat. Marcos, do you want to jump in?
Nope. Maybe you can't yet, but I could read it. Marcos' question.
What? Oh, did you unmute? Want to try? Nope. I'll read it.
I'm here. I'm here. My microphone went off to-
Okay.
I didn't think you'd call on me so fast, Rachel. I thought I had like 10 minutes
before you get to my question.
Sorry.
I'm still an AI skeptic. I feel like code generation, it's good at, like you gave a good
demo, I think, at PositConf about how you can turn like words into like a .db query or whatever.
But other than code generation, I just am very skeptical. I feel like Apple's, you know,
Apple intelligence is just comically messing up summaries all the time.
I don't think they can think. I don't think they can reason. I think Apple had a paper that
exposed their ability to do math just by giving it some unnecessary information.
So was it more of the code side and like, well, like we can have it, you know,
this is a good way to generate structured SQL queries or structured JSON or whatever,
or is there something else that you saw that kind of changed your tone on large language models?
Yeah. I mean, I think that's what I would talk about today, but I think what started the change
for me is that there were a couple of true believers that just really were, as soon as,
you know, chat GPT and really like Gen AI stuff before that came out,
who were really intensely attracted to this technology.
Winston Chang on my team, I work very closely with, and he was one of these people that just,
I think as every new development came up, he was like, oh, look at this. This is amazing.
And I mean, he tends to be like, he gets more excited about new stuff that I think I'm a little
bit more like curmudgeonly. But I realized after a while that there was, there's like a big
difference in mentality between the people who are getting excited and people who were
sort of getting annoyed. And I think the difference is, so you go to use chat GPT for the first time,
or whatever, and you ask it three questions and it gets two of them wrong, right?
And I think most people are like, oh, this thing is useless. It was wrong.
Like I asked it something and it was wrong. And the people who really got it were the people who
were like, oh my gosh, it got one of them right. That's really interesting. What else can it get
right? Or, you know, it got it wrong the first time, but then after two follow-up questions,
you know, it got it right. And it started with coding. It started with, you know, I'm trying to
develop, you know, I have to do this algorithm this afternoon. First try, garbage. But 10 minutes
later, I got it working. And so he'd be really excited about that, where I would stop at the
first mistake. I'd be like, this thing, this is nonsense, you know, I'm out. And the more I
started to see people around me gradually, like the results that they were getting by like, yeah,
yeah, yeah, it makes mistakes. Keep pushing. And, you know, like knowing that it's going to make
mistakes, what can you get out of it, is a totally different mentality than like expecting it to be
perfect at anything. So I don't think that makes it good enough to be a game-changing, you know,
technology. But it made it interesting enough to be like, if you could save, you know, two hours
coding something up, even if it took you six turns in a conversation instead of one turn,
like it's, it's, you'd be foolish not to take advantage of that. So I want to be clear, I don't
at all think that all the kind of breathless hype that's out there, like most of it is nonsense.
Certainly anything with AGI, I'm just, I'm not even interested in following that discussion.
Like that's just not an interesting, that's like philosophy, and I always hated philosophy.
So yes, for me, I think, yeah, what I've been really interested in is the more coding aspects
of things. I am really interested in, number one, I think helping our users do what they do more
effectively using AI. And it, I think a year ago, that would have been, it would have taken a lot
of imagination to see how we could get there. But it was really the release of Cloud 3.5 Sonnet,
I think maybe in March last year, that represented like, this is a step change in ability to code,
where it went from like, this is not just wrong, it's unknowingly wrong. Even like the best models
were like, this is just irritating. Like it's, it's wrong. And then when I tell it how to fix it,
it fixes it, but then break something else. I mean, like, even if it saves you time, it's such
a frustrating process to go through. Whereas Cloud was this sudden step change, and it's right so much
more often. And it's so much more stable when you ask it to make changes. So a lot of people,
I think that are complaining like, oh, this thing never helps me write code. It might be like, you
need to update your priors with like the latest models, especially Cloud, which I still feel like
is head and shoulders above everything else that I've tried. And then finding that we can sort of
find these narrow use cases, like I talked about at PositConf last year, where we like, restrict
what it's doing to taking your like, human intent and translating it to SQL. And I've been doing
experiments more recently, where it's like, take this human intent and translate it to R.
And the best models are actually quite good at that, especially if like,
I'll spill a little bit of a secret, like one of the things that I'm working on is
this chatbot that mostly focuses on doing like dplyr and ggplot type stuff.
And like, if you think about what you can do with dplyr and ggplot, that's a lot. Like,
there's all sorts of questions you can do in exploratory data analysis with just those two
tools. And those two tools, like Cloud is very, very good at writing ggplot and dplyr code.
So I think it's like sort of ignoring the fact that there are all these things that AI is terrible
at, and will be terrible at for, you know, the foreseeable future, and saying like, wait,
what are the good parts? Like, and can we sort of create scenarios where people are a little bit
shielded from the bad parts? And or at least their expectations are properly set, that like these
things this bot is going to be good at. And like, if you're asking it to do these other things,
you know, you're a little bit more on your own. Yeah, I think I agree with most of that. Sorry,
Libby. I think I agree with most of that. I mean, I do think that the ability to generate code in
SQL benefits from the fact there's not a lot of satirical code out there. I mean, there's not
like the equivalent of put glue on your pizza, and SQL does not exist, right? So I think that's
one reason that's pretty good. I use Copilot. I mean, I use Copilot to fix some recursive algorithm
that I was writing that was terrible, and it made it better. So I definitely see their utility. I
think you are embracing the good and running with it. And I am like, yeah, there's this good part,
but most of it is kind of overhyped, and they still can't pay the bills. So I remain skeptical,
but I think I appreciate what you're saying about there is some utility there. And so let's focus
on that, and what can we get out of it, rather than the other 70% hype train stuff. So I think
that's good. Yeah, yeah. And I just want to acknowledge, like, a lot of people have objections
to AI on the grounds of like copyright infringement, or environmental impact, or like,
what does this mean for the future of the human race? You know, like, those are all totally valid
complaints, and I will not attempt to argue against that. Like, those are absolutely things
that we should all be wrestling with. And none of the things that I've been, you know, none of
the prototypes I've been working with speak at all to those concerns. So like, if anybody here has
like a moral objection to AI, I absolutely will not argue against that. But this sort of like,
can it be useful? I think that question needs to be answered with a lens of, like,
you need to get over being offended when this thing is wrong, you know, like, take into account
when it's wrong and take into account, like, it can't be trusted for these things. But if you allow
that to, if you allow that to stop your exploration, then you're missing out on a lot of good things
that the models can do. Awesome. Thanks, Joe. And I think I saw Mike's hand go up a little bit. Mike,
did you have any follow ups? I kind of did, but we've gone off in a different direction. So it's
fine. All right, well, feel free to bring us back if you if you would like to. Thank you,
Marcus, as well for like, amazing question. I see a question from Arsenis in the chat.
Arsenis, are you available to ask? Oh, sure. Thank you, Libby. And thank you so much for joining us,
Joe. My question is, is one that comes a little bit out of frustration as well. So I don't know
how useful this would be. But it's around this thing about AI that, you know, we were just
discussing. One of the challenges that I see around it is not the technology itself. Actually,
you said something just a moment ago. It does a lot of things terribly. I disagree. I think it
does everything that it's meant to do the way it's supposed to do it. It's a probabilistic model.
What I think the issue is, is people's understanding of probabilistic models and
what they can and cannot do. So if your expectations of AI are that it's going to
talk to you like a person and have the judgment of a human and all of that. Yeah, you're going
to be very disappointed. Right. But it's it's actually these are really great language models
that are just that they're just models of language. They predict what something is
based on a huge set of data. And, you know, the models are great. So I think the problem is the
expectation of it. And so I'm wondering how you've dealt with kind of that question in talking to
folks that are maybe a little less technical. Yeah, I actually fundamentally disagree with
that framing. I mean, well, sorry. What you said is true. What you've said is true. These are
absolutely probabilistic models. They are effectively like very, very, very large pattern
matching machines. There's no there's no doubt that that statement is true. However, I found it
as of like a year ago, it stopped being useful. So, you know, I think that there is.
We've been doing an internal hackathon series, myself and some members of the Shiny team.
Once we realize like, oh, there's there's stuff here that we need the whole company to understand.
We do like a two and a half hour boot camp and then set people free for two days to
to hack on LLMs. And the very first thing I say is to resist to this framing. So especially people
inside Posit, a lot of them know how these things are coded. They know the math.
You know, they know what a feed forward network is. They know, you know, how, you know, attention
works. And if you know a little bit too much, it's actually it gives you really bad intuitions about
what this technology is capable of, because I think probably at least a year ago, we surpassed
the point where what you would intuit a pattern matching machine to be able to do these things
can already do. They can already go beyond those things. So I think I encourage people like
understand that that's true. But when you are wondering, I wonder if a model can do this.
Don't let that intuition stop you from trying things. So it is helpful to say,
you know, think of it as like really lean into being empirical about this. Don't think about
like my mental model for what Markov chain scaled up can do is this. So I'm not even going to try
asking it this kind of question. Like I think like we far, far exceeded what you would normally
intuit these models to be able to do. And I think the way you can see that is that every generation
of new foundation model that's come out, there's been some gotcha question that has been like,
oh man, it does these amazing things. And then this simple question completely fools it. And
there's always a host of people posting, well, of course it can't do that. All it is is a stochastic
parrot. Of course it can't answer that kind of question. It's never seen that kind of question
before. And then what happens is the next generation of models come out and they can
completely, you know, not just solve that question because they've seen that question.
People have talked about it, but like that type of sort of quote unquote reasoning, which again,
not technically true. It is not reasoning. And yet your mental model is better served by pretending
that it's reasoning and then just not being surprised when the facade kind of falls down.
But a lot of what I, you know, in our hackathons, we've had like 90 people now come through this
hackathon. A lot of what we've encouraged people to do is to just sort of don't say no for the
model, like let the model try and you might be surprised what happens. And every once in a while
you're surprised that you think that it should be able to do something and it can't because
in the end it is just a pattern matching engine. But I really encourage you not to go into it,
putting those limits on the model. You're going to miss out on a lot of things that it can do
amazingly. So we've talked about hackathons the past few weeks here at The Hangout, and
I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about how you structured that hackathon for
anybody who's trying to do something similar at their organization. Yeah, absolutely. So let me
tell you about the format first. So basically we let anyone in the company sign up, whether they're
you know at whatever role they are in the company, any department, any level of seniority,
whether they can code or not. And we start with a two and a half hour boot camp where we introduce
ourselves and then in a group of eight to ten people, I think eight is about the optimal size
for me, we basically give them everything they need in two hours to be able to start hacking
on LLMs. And not just like using LLMs through ChatGBT or Copilot, but I believe that a lot of
the interesting stuff that these LLMs can do, they only arise when you program against them,
they only arise when you use LLM APIs. And I felt so strongly about this that I strong-armed
Hadley into creating the Elmer package with me so that our users can do this.
And so in two to two and a half hours, I sort of go through everything that I feel like you
need to know to get started hacking on these things, including you know like shift your
mindset from thinking of this as a stochastic parrot to think of it as a reasoning human being
even though it's not. And then I can share the slides, I'll share the slides in the chat
after I answer this. And then we give them a two-day period where we ask them to spend
four hours minimum doing some kind of exploration with AI. And then we come back and have an hour
and a half sort of show and tell where everybody gets five to ten minutes to show what they've done.
Now I'll say that the most valuable part of this by far is just creating the space for people
to have the freedom to explore. I think you know Posit, we're like a fully remote company,
everybody's very conscientious. So the idea of like let me put my normal responsibilities to
the side for a little bit, even for four hours over a two-day period, and just start hacking.
That is a really difficult thing for people to do without feeling really guilty, even if it's
something that everybody acknowledges is an important thing. So I think one of the reasons
I've been told this effort has been really successful is I have the CTO title, so it can
feel a little bit like this is official, like you're officially being asked by one of the
executives to dedicate this time and really spend it to learn this one particular thing.
But I turn that around, Rachel you participated, actually Eric, Karan, Gary, a number of people
on this call have participated in the hackathon, and I'd just be curious about your thoughts on the
format. Yeah, I loved it because I think sometimes we don't take enough time to step back and learn
something new. Like we're just doing our regular jobs every week and you get so caught up in that,
so it was really nice to like take a step back and think about what's a problem that I've been
wanting to solve and I haven't given it enough time. And I'll even share like one quick example,
like right away was with the Hangout chats, like Libby and I always see all these great resources,
but the chat is such an amazing conversation that's happening, it's hard for us to go and pull
out those helpful links. And one quick way we used it right away is to say like, what were all the
resources shared in the chat? So now that we could share them all with you on LinkedIn as well.
So that's one quick example.
Yeah, I got a chance to do it and for me personally, I did see some
thing on the chat when people are talking about prompting. The way I like to look at
working with LLMs is like training a pet on how you, like the pet already knows like a few things,
like it's a biological needs and stuff like that, but then how do you actually make it
follow directions, right? So how well you train it or how well you do the prompting actually
affects a lot on how you want to do it. And the way I actually have found it has worked really
well is the answers I'm looking for is something I should already know what I'm expecting. If it's
something that's like super unknown, then it's going to be really hard to validate that. So
if there's something I know what I'm expecting, I can build some validation on top of it,
becomes really easy to like go back and change the prompting to make sure I can tune it
to get what I expect. So for those things, I have seen it works really well.
That's a really good point. I was also in one of the hackathon groups and I think for me,
one of the core things that I really enjoyed about it was just Joe's articulated this mentality of
questioning your own mental models and using experimentation as a way to find out how LLMs
work and the ways in which they work the best and just really kind of approaching it with a
curious mind and also just trying it out and seeing what happens. And I enjoyed the format
so much that as soon as I heard that Joe was going to be leading a workshop at PositConf,
I offered to join in with him. So I'm really excited that this year at PositConf, we're going
to be hosting a workshop that is basically distilling the experiences that we had from
the hackathon into a one-day workshop on programming with LLMs. And there's a lot of
really cool tools that we've been working on. Joe mentioned Elmer that Hadley's been working on.
And also on the Python side, we have a similar package called chatless. There's a lot of cool
things in Shiny that we've been adding to work with LLMs and they're all going to be
wrapped up in this one-day workshop. Yeah, that's right.
I'm going to share a link to more information on the workshops in the chat too. Okay. I see
questions are going a few directions, a lot on AI and then a lot going back to Shiny. So why don't
we ask one more AI one and then we'll jump back to Shiny too. Travis, I think you had asked a
question about resources a little bit earlier. Do you want to jump in? Oh, sure. Thanks. Yeah,
I think you answer a lot of these questions probably, Joe. It sounds a little bit like
learning by experience, finding the useful things. Like I've stopped pretending I'm smarter than
Claude, for example, and I use it all the time. But it did sound like you mentioned a more holistic
learning process for the organization. You said, you know, we need to embrace at least knowing
about AI from the top all the way through the org. Like what does that look like for you all?
And are there resources that are good to that end? So like people that may not be even directly
programming and reaping the direct benefits of Claude, are there other things that it helps to
communicate to the team? Yeah. So the link that I shared in the chat are my slides for the kickoff.
This so far really is the way we are trying to spread this information. I don't think this is
the complete set of things that you need to know. But I think it gives people enough
of a kickstart that it's kind of downhill from there. I think once people start using these
models in Angular, the rest comes relatively easily. That being said,
one conclusion that I've come to about our hackathon format and this set of slides is that
they're very effective for people who know how to code. And they're okay for people who are not
coders. I feel like it's maybe a little bit interesting, but it's like a lot of time is
spent on things that are not going to be relevant to you if you're never going to write a line of
code. So for the big chunk of the company that there's no coding in their lives at all, I think
that's like a to-do for us. How do we come up with a hackathon format that really makes the
maximum amount of sense? I think Rachel happened to do a hackathon project that involved no coding
and was spectacularly successful at that. I think that was maybe not an outlier, but definitely
more towards the 75th percentile of how people have done if they have no coding background in
our hackathon. So that is definitely a to-do for us in this sort of winter-spring season to figure
out how do we get people who have no coding knowledge to come in and really use these
off-the-shelf tools more effectively or to build mental models differently. And I do think that's
an important point about when you set up the hackathon and when you and Winston were talking
about a few examples, because you open it up to say, hey, you don't have to know how to code
these yourselves. There are some other tools you might want to explore. I think that's really
important to making other people feel welcome to join. And so you're not sitting there like,
oh, shoot, what am I going to do here? Yeah, absolutely. And the thing that we've pointed
people to the most is Google Notebook LM, which, I don't know, it seems to be like a particularly
good implementation of RAG and a number of other techniques and a really nice UI.
So I think so far, I think we've had the most success basically pointing people,
giving people a sense of what RAG is, how system prompting works and stuff like that,
and then just go see what you can do with Google Notebook LM. With Google Notebook LM,
it's so easy to bring in anything from your Google Drive, YouTube videos. And at least in our company,
we use so much Google stuff that everybody has relevant information in Google Drive that they
could do some interesting experiments with. So I don't know what that looks like if you're
a Microsoft shopper, but surely there must be something similar in Office 365 or something.
Yeah, Joe, actually, I will say Notebook LM, that was my thing that put me over the edge from AI
skeptic into, well, this is actually useful, now I get it type of thing. After being grumpy for
several years about it and being like a curmudgeon, being able to just add a bunch of sources
and have it be so user-friendly with a good user experience is amazing. So if you're out there and
you're skeptical, like I was, maybe go explore Notebook. I would love to talk with you about it
too. I wanted to steer back to Shiny for just a minute because we asked in the chat, like,
hey, Shiny contest people, do you have any advice? And Eric does. So I'd love him to hop in
really quickly and share. Yeah. Hi. Thanks, Libby. Tongue tied there. Yeah. So I've been a
Shiny user from the very, very beginning back to the Google mailing list. So shout out to those
that were on the Google mailing list back in the old days. Nonetheless, yeah, the Shiny contest,
I'm so glad that that was originated. And for me, both from being on the inside of it as a judge
one year, and as well as being a submitter, some of the advice I can give to those of you that are
interested in trying this out, one of which is find, like, maybe it's based on one of your hobbies
or an interesting data that really excites you. Don't just use some data source that is kind of
boring to you. Find something that really you have some excitement with. And when I submitted,
even though I was a judge there, I just figured I'll just submit it just for fun.
I was involved, of all things, an online racing league during the COVID pandemic,
and we wanted a way to actually get the race results to have a cool app to visualize it and
kind of track how the races were doing throughout the season. So we figured out how to do OCR on,
like, the game screenshot. And I thought, OK, well, I'm going to bring Shiny into this and
not just have my compatriot in Europe do all the Python fun with it. So I built a Shiny dashboard
that levers Plotly, levers Reactable, but things that I wish I could share, like, more fully from
my day job, where some of you know I come from life sciences, and I can't share, like, 99% of
what I do there. But I worked in a few things that I learned from some of those projects into that
Shiny contest app. So it was like finding a motivating dataset or other rich source of
inspiration and just being as creative as possible with it. So even though I certainly wouldn't share
that dashboard internally at work, nonetheless, it was fun to flex a little bit of Shiny creativity
with that. So, yeah, just finding that novel use case, I think, is a great way to go.
Awesome. Thank you. And I think we had a very good Shiny adjacent or Shiny question
in the chat, if I can find it. Jordan, are you available to ask?
Yeah, I think. What was it? I put a lot of words.
I found it. I'll put it in the chat.
I see, yeah. It's a lot of people. So just kind of asking, like, is there
mostly any sort of Shiny app that I make or try to make default to any plotting done in Plotly?
And it, like, gets the job done. But I feel like it's something that has been around for quite a
while, but seems to not have so much development or a lot of enhancements in it. And I was just
wondering if, like, you know, is there anything that anyone else uses that seems to be better?
Seems like GGI Rath, which has a fun name that people seem to like using that. So I'm just kind
of wondering, like, are there any sort of, like, you know, plotting alternatives, stuff that works
better, stuff that's in development, cool stuff to check out there? Yeah, I definitely sympathize
with that. I feel like Plotly is just good enough that I don't, like, bother learning anything else.
But it definitely, you know, it definitely has its rough edges. And there are definitely times
where I'm like, oh, you know, I wish it was a little bit better in this or that area.
We, I love the advice that's here, you know, GGI Rath and eCharts for R. I don't have a ton
of experience with either, but I've heard really good things about both. And it's always one of
those things that I think for us internally, for those of you who have been around for a long time,
we took a shot at this with GGViz years and years ago. And Hadley kind of famously declared on stage
at USAR that, like, 2014 was the year of GGViz. And we had some kind of, I don't remember even
what the technical challenges were, and then kind of backed away slowly. So, for years, he
caught a lot of ribbing from question askers at conferences, like, what happened to the year of
GGViz? But I think it's always something that feels like we're very tempted to return to,
but it's always like, oh, the year after this year, you know, like, there's always
these things first, and then we can, like, let's build the world's best interactive graphing
library. So, that being said, I feel like
there, this, it's interesting, this same problem exists in the Python space. I feel like Plotly
plays the same role there, where it's sort of, like, probably the most popular interactive one,
even though everyone's like, yeah, it's good enough-ish, you know. But all the, you know,
competing libraries have their own sort of pitfalls or particular features that they don't have.
So, I always keep my eye on ones that are based on Vega, Vega and VegaLite,
just because it feels like there's, like, a really principled base that they're building on. But
at least last I checked, being able to do custom interactive stuff, like, in reaction to clicks
and things like that, all that stuff was a little bit, it felt a little bit manual still. So,
I don't know, anyone else here want to speak to this question? I think it's a really interesting
and important one. Yeah, I'll open this up to everybody. And on the subject of Shiny,
I know one of our contest winners, Umair, also had some stuff to add. So, feel free to hop in here,
and talk about either plotting stuff or your own Shiny stuff.
Thanks, Libby. So, my suggestion is, if you have any idea at all, don't wait until you have all
the required skills to make that app. Just start. And once you have some bare bones working app,
get community feedback. So, DSLC, Slack is very useful. Blue Sky is very active now.
You can get some feedback and improve from there. When I was working on my app,
about the story time with AI, I did not know how to render Corridor slides in the app. And I
actually had a very challenging time to basically use Corridor, and not only generate the slides,
but also render them in the app, because Corridor limits you to where your output directory would be.
Unlike R Markdown. But eventually, I figured it out. So, my suggestion is just start. Don't hesitate.
Thank you so much, Umair. I love that advice. Joe, do you have anything to add?
I was going to say, definitely check out Umair's app. It is a beautiful piece of work. I mean,
it is such a simple user interface. But it's just, like, the whole thing just felt like a lovely
little nugget of Shiny, plus LLMs, plus, like, the idea to use a Corridor slide deck
to render the story output, I thought was, like, a really inspired choice. Because you get these
sort of really nice transitions and this, you know, really nice formatting. So, I really
appreciated that app. I thought it was super cool. I love it. Umair, did you get any feedback
from the community that you were able to implement into your app as you were making it?
Yeah, I think several points. While developing the app, the first thing was how to render slides.
And so, when I was working through that, I had it working locally, but not on the deployed app.
So, then on the Slack, I asked about people trying out the app, and there were several
people that actually helped testing the app. And on that point, I also want to add,
I recently started this project called Shiny Meetings, and I posted about that on BlueSky
as well, where the goal is to do tidy user type projects every 15 days, where you could
collaboratively work on an app, the UI part and server part, and I think there's a lot of
opportunity to practice there. Awesome. Thank you. That sounds amazing. Go find Umair on BlueSky.
Do you want to put your BlueSky in the chat one more time so everybody can find you?
Yes. Awesome. And also, while we're on the subject of Shiny,
IJP, I see you have your hand raised. Really quickly, I wanted to mention the Shiny Conference
is going to be coming up, so everybody go take your fingers to Google and look at the Shiny
Conference. It's amazing. I've attended it for the past couple of years, and it's such an amazing
place to go do workshops and watch talks, and then also there's a whole showcase of Shiny apps. So,
if you think these Shiny apps are cool from the contest, you want to go investigate more of what's
possible, I really highly recommend going and checking out the Shiny Conference. Awesome.
Curtis just put a link in the chat. JP, what have you got for us? Hi. Thanks so much for the
opportunity to talk to you here. You may have talked about it. I joined a little late, but I
do have like a – well, I love the Shiny bot or the Shiny Assistant. Like, it is my best friend.
It is my god, basically. I pray to the god of the Shiny Assistant. And on that topic,
I was wondering if there's any motions to make it, to build it. I noticed that basically,
if you refresh, then you lose all of your conversation, and you have to start over,
and sometimes when I reload, it reloads where I was, and sometimes it reloads when I was a month
ago. And so, yeah, I was wondering if it's – first, if it's going to continue to be free.
Second, if it's going to have some sort of like agency, like, oh, I want this to have, you know,
Plotly libraries much more like here, or I want to upload my code there so that it knows my style,
or, you know, like – because I think that R is really, really poorly understood by like
Claude or OpenAI models and stuff, but it's magical with the Shiny Assistant. So, great job,
first of all. It's fantastic. I love it. But also, like, I want more. So, yeah.
It's funny you say that. The Shiny Assistant, like almost all the intelligence is just Claude.
There's very little custom – we know that there are a few common mistakes that it makes
to Shiny that we instruct it not to, but other than that, it's mostly just Claude
doing what it knows about Shiny. But I'm glad you're finding it useful.
For the sort of hitting reload and having it start over, that is – I mean, that is intentional. We
assume that if you hit reload, it's because you want to start over. And if you're seeing it,
sometimes when you hit reload, it reloads – you know, it continues where you left off. That's
because if you disconnect, we assume that that was accidental. So, if you put your laptop to
sleep or you just, you know, walk away for a few hours and come back and it's gray,
we assume that if you hit reload then, then that's because you want to resume where you left off.
And you can see the difference because in the URL bar, you'll see a huge URL after the pound sign.
That means that it has state that it's waiting to restore you to. Whereas if you just see,
like, the bare URL, if you hit reload, it's going to start clean. So, I think there's definitely –
you know, I'm sure that there's ways we could improve that and make it more clear.
Yeah, as for whether it'll remain free, it is quite expensive to run. It is currently costing us,
I think, a couple thousand dollars a month and growing quite a bit each month.
So, I'm not sure what the future holds there. Worst case, I think, is you'll have to bring
an API key from Entropic and then it'll cost you, you know, dollars a month at the most. I mean,
it's not that expensive for an individual. It's just that scale really adds up.
But I think our focus right now is there are a lot of things that it can't do because it's
running in a browser. There's a lot of code that it can't run. It can't access your data,
things like that. So, one of the things that we are actively working on now is thinking about
how do we bring that experience local so that you're running Shiny Assistant on your own
machine and it can run whatever R or Python code you could run on your machine. Like,
that's what it can write and let you preview. And then in that case, I mean, we will definitely
be asking you to provide an API key or something like that. You know, if you're running on your
machine, then we want you to connect directly to Claude or whatever's in the back end.
So, and as far as getting better, I don't know. Like, we're not doing a great job of sort of
analyzing what people have written into Shiny Assistant. So, like, we reserve the right to,
like, analyze your logs, but we have not as of yet done any of that. So, right now,
we're a little bit blind as to what Shiny Assistant is doing well and not well. So.
Cool. Thank you.
Thank you. This time goes by so quickly. I saw there was an anonymous question that was,
do we share the summary of the chat and the resources and advice from the Hangouts? So,
I just wanted to quickly call out that all the Hangouts are recorded and shared to a YouTube
playlist, as well as on the Posit website. But you'll see Libby is helping to share all those
resources in the recordings as well. So, that will be in the details for each Hangout recording
when it goes up. Jay, I see you have your hand raised. You want to jump in here?
Sure. Yeah, I have a 10-minute question for two minutes. So, we'll see how far we get.
Okay.
For background, my team has historically been doing data science, but we've gone very heavily
into Gen AI sort of workflow development. So, I'm a big believer and user of this technology.
And I've been using Posit products for a long time. I remember when Posit Connect first came
out. So, I really, I see how this product fits in the enterprise, and I'm seeing this new capability
emerge. And so, my question to you, Joe, is how are you guys positioning yourself as part of the
Gen AI stack? It's different than Shiny. It's a completely different ecosystem, set of users,
but you guys have something here that other people don't. You're in enterprises. You have
the ability to host Python apps. You have so many things going for you. How are you trying to take
advantage of this? Because I don't want to hire a cloud engineer to build something in AWS. I don't
want to try to shove all this stuff into this Microsoft ecosystem. How are you guys positioning
this? Yeah, absolutely. So, I think of us as we want to be at the sort of AI integration layer.
So, we don't want to develop foundation models, and we don't even really want to be in the model
hosting business. Each of the cloud providers has a very strong solution with Bedrock, Vertex,
and the Azure AI. We can't compete with that, even in terms of getting it past IT. They want
the models to run there. So, what we want to do is take this raw capability of an LLM endpoint
and empower people to build custom front ends, custom workflows that take advantage of those LLMs.
I think right now, a lot of people who don't really get hands-on with the technology think of
an LLM as like, I want chat GPT in the enterprise. We think of this as like, sure, you can have that,
but there's so much more interesting capabilities if you narrowly focus these LLMs to solve a
particular workflow problem. So, the one that I demonstrated last year was having a sidebar in
your Shiny app that lets you ask data questions. But I think in our hackathons, in our internal
explorations, there's just like a million things where you don't want some off-the-shelf AI
solution. You want to build something that's bespoke to your organization, where LLMs are
one ingredient of what you're building. So, that's one part of it. That's what I'm most excited about,
being a Shiny person. But there's also other possibilities that Connect itself could gain
LLM capabilities. Like, Connect itself could let you ask questions of the content that you've
published, for example, which, you know, those are things that we're actively exploring as well.
Okay. I feel like this is a longer conversation, and I know you guys have stuff to do. So,
thanks, Joe, for answering it. I feel like this could have been a two-hour conversation for us
all today. Thank you all for such great questions, and I can't wait to go back and look through the
chat here and see all the conversation happening. But thank you so much, Joe, for joining us as our
future leader, and Garrick for jumping in here, too, and to all the Shiny contest winners who
joined today as well and shared their experience. Yep. Thank you, everybody. See you next week.
Bye, all.